In this video, I would like to implement this handle exception method so that we have a way to handle
any exception that might occur or to guard against any exceptions that might occur.
OK, so we want to be able to display a message to the user whenever an exception happens.
Now, keep in mind that exceptions are one time events.
We don't want to keep displaying that message to the user.
Again and again whenever we come back to a screen.
So if we leave the screen and come back to it, or if we leave the app and come back to it, we don't
want to display the same error message again and again.
If we use a mutable state of in our view model, then whenever the screen kind of refreshes, we it
will still display the same message again and again.
So we want to avoid that.
And for that purpose, we need to create a special data type that will only allow us to display a message
once.
And then that's it.
OK, so we're going to call that data type and event.
OK, so we're going to create a new content file called event.
OK, now an event is basically an open class event that will take some generic type out T.
And it will have a constructor private.
Val, content of type T.
OK, so we want to be able to handle any data type.
However, we want to set some restrictions on this event.
OK, so first of all, we want to know whether the event has been handled or not.
So for that, we're going to have a VAR has been handled.
Equals false by default, and also we want to set a private set.
OK, we want to make the sector private so that only the event or elements inside this class can update
this variable.
Once we have that, we can say fun.
Get content or no.
This will return a type to Nullarbor, and we have return if has been handled.
Then we return, no.
Health.
Has been handled.
We set it to true and we return content.
OK, so we want to be able to return this content only if it hasn't been handled, if it has, then
we we return.
No.
All right.
So that's it for this event, and we can use this event to create a mutable status in our IG view model.
OK, so here we're going to have devout pop up.
Notification.
Is going to be a mutable state of here.
We're going to pass the type event.
And we're going to pass a string type to our event.
Make sure you import that.
OK.
Again, this is going to be notable, and it's going to be no by default.
All right.
So with that in mind, we can start to implement our handle exception function.
So first of all, we can say exception, question mark, dot, print stack, trace.
We want to display any information we have to the council.
We're going to say valve error message is going to be exception.
Question mark.
Dot.
Localize message or.
So if that is no, we're going to have an empty string.
We're going to have a message.
Valid message is going to be if.
Custom message.
Dot is empty.
Then we simply have the error message, otherwise we can personalize our output, so inside a string,
we have the custom message colon duller error message.
So basically we can we kind of combined the message from the exception with our custom message.
And then finally, we assign it to our pop up notification via an event.
So proper notification dot value is going to be event.
Of our message straight.
OK.
Make sure custom message, I think that is.
We don't need to have this new label actually, since by default is a strength so we can remove that
no liability and get rid of that error.
OK, so we have that now.
Once we have this handle exception, this pop up notification will be updated.
So once we have this pop up notification, we can access it in our composable.
OK.
We're going to create a class or a file rather that will contain these kind of small composable that
don't really go into a screen and they go into multiple screens, let's say.
So I'm going to create a new package here called Main.
So I'm going to place this inside the main and not inside the box because it doesn't really relate to
us specifically.
It relates to pretty much the whole application.
So here I'm going to create a new file and I'm going to call this main, let's say, common bits.
OK, so the kind of composer composable that go into this file, I set it as a class, but it's not
really a class.
So I'm just going to remove that and I'm going to create a composable here.
Function notification message, and here I need the view model.
So in IG view model, so let's attach an observer to that VM.
What did we call it, pop up notification and pop up a toast message when the event hasn't been handled.
So without notification, notify state equals v m dot pop up notification dot value then vowed not if
a message is going to be notify state.
Don't get content or no notice, they can be no keep in mind, so let's add that.
No, no liability check.
Now, if not this message.
Is not no.
Only then we have a toast.
And toast, don't make text.
We have local context.
Dot current.
We have our notification message and toast dot long.
And don't forget, dots show.
OK, so we have our notification message as a composable so we can simply use this composable in pretty
much in the whole application, so we need to set it in the main activity.
So here we're going to have notification message and we need to pass the VM.
OK, so basically what will happen here?
What will happen here is, let's say we get an error somewhere, OK?
We get an exception.
Like here, username already exists that will basically call this function and update a pop up notification
via an event.
Once this is updated automatically, the notification message composable will receive an updated state.
We'll check this ability.
You will find that it can display a toast and display a toast here, and that will happen in the main
activity in the notification message.
So what I would like to do now is let's check if we haven't made any mistake.
Let's run the application and I'm going to check three elements.
First of all, I'm going to check if username already already exists, if this message is happening,
and then we will check this creation.
OK?
With username and password.
OK, so let's see what happens if I can get this to run on my emulator.
OK.
Right, so like I said, we need to check whether the user name already already exists.
So for that, let's go ahead and create a username.
So here I'm going to start my collection users.
I'm going to create a document with a random I.D. and I'm going to have your username.
And let's say, let's put this as Alex.
OK, so that will create a user with a username.
Alex, that's the only thing that the system checks for now, so that should be sufficient.
So if I put here, Alex, email doesn't matter and password one two three, that doesn't matter either.
So if I click, sign up.
I get a pop up username already exists.
OK, so that is fine.
Let's say we remove this delete collection, users.
Now, I shouldn't get this message anymore with the same data, but I should get a different message
coming from Firebase authentication.
So if I click, sign up.
I get sent up failed email or email address is badly formatted, OK, so I don't have the correct email.
So let's fix that image.
Gmail dot com sign up centerfielder given password is invalid, password should be at least six characters
long.
So one two three four five six.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Keep in mind, we won't get a notification if everything's completed successfully.
Let's have a look in the code.
What do we do?
Basically, we simply stop here before creating a profile.
However, we should see in authentication, we should see our user created there and we see the SD at
gmail.com that was created.
OK, so that is really good.
That is working so far.
I think we're on the right track.
Next up, what we need to do is we need to take that information and create a profile once the authentication
user has been created.